docs/sources/viewing-json-logs/_index.md, before:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/simplified-exploration/logs/viewing-json-logs/
description: Learn how to view JSON formatted logs in Logs Drilldown.
keywords:
  - Logs
  - JSON
  - Formatting
  - Drain
  - Categorization
  - Analysis
menuTitle: Viewing JSON logs
title: Viewing JSON logs
weight: 400
---

# Viewing JSON Logs

If your log lines are formatted in the JSON format, you can view them more easily using Grafana's JSON viewer in the Logs table.


{{< admonition type="note" >}}
You must be running Loki 3.5.0 or later to use the JSON viewer
{{< /admonition >}}

To interact with the JSON view, select the **Show Logs** button for your service in Logs Drilldown. 

{{< figure alt="JSON Table viewer with selector and include exclude highlighted" width="900px" align="center" src="/media/docs/explore-logs/show-logs.png" caption="The JSON log line viewer" >}}

From there, select **JSON** in the format menu in the top right toolbar. This will show your logs in a structured, collapsable way, enabling you to sort, filter, and otherwise adjust your log data in the visualisations for your logs.

{{< figure alt="Show Logs button on a JSON logging service" width="300px" align="center" src="/media/docs/explore-logs/json-viewer.png" caption="Show Logs button on a service which logs JSON" >}}

## Filtering log lines with the JSON view

Users can include and exclude specific log data from their visualizations by selecting the **Include/Exclude** icons next to a given label. 

For example, given a set of logs of API requests, selecting the **exclude** button next to a method field with status "GET" will result in the Log Volume dashboard showing only requests of other types (DELETE/PATCH/POST/PUT).

To include them again, simply remove them from the **Fields** filter above the Logs Volume visualization. 

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
We are keen to improve this feature, so please [contact us](https://forms.gle/1sYWCTPvD72T1dPH9) if there is something that would help you find the signal in the noise.
{{< /admonition >}}

Commit message:

link to JSON in index, adjusted notice on doc
Index page for Drilldown now has reference to JSON viewer documentation

JSON viewer documentation clarifies what is and is not supported

docs/sources/viewing-json-logs/_index.md, after:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/simplified-exploration/logs/viewing-json-logs/
description: Learn how to view JSON formatted logs in Logs Drilldown.
keywords:
  - Logs
  - JSON
  - Formatting
  - Drain
  - Categorization
  - Analysis
menuTitle: Viewing JSON logs
title: Viewing JSON logs
weight: 400
---

# JSON log line viewer

If your log lines are formatted in the JSON format, you can view them more easily using Grafana's JSON viewer in the Logs table. This view will help you more easily read your JSON style logs, and filter through them to make your related dashboards more relevant and focused.


{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Logs Drilldown JSON Viewer is an experimental feature. Engineering and on-call support is not available. Documentation is either limited or not provided outside of code comments. No SLA is provided. To use this feature, you must be running Loki 3.5.0 or later.
{{< /admonition >}}

## Viewing JSON logs

To interact with the JSON view, select the **Show Logs** button for your service in Logs Drilldown. 

{{< figure alt="JSON Table viewer with selector and include exclude highlighted" width="900px" align="center" src="/media/docs/explore-logs/show-logs.png" caption="The JSON log line viewer" >}}

From there, select **JSON** in the format menu in the top right toolbar. This will show your logs in a structured, collapsable way, enabling you to sort, filter, and otherwise adjust your log data in the visualisations for your logs.

{{< figure alt="Show Logs button on a JSON logging service" width="300px" align="center" src="/media/docs/explore-logs/json-viewer.png" caption="Show Logs button on a service which logs JSON" >}}

## Filtering log lines with the JSON view

Users can include and exclude specific log data from their visualizations by selecting the **Include/Exclude** icons next to a given label. 

For example, given a set of logs of API requests, selecting the **exclude** button next to a method field with status "GET" will result in the Log Volume dashboard showing only requests of other types (DELETE/PATCH/POST/PUT).

To include them again, simply remove them from the **Fields** filter above the Logs Volume visualization. 

Log lines with only certain fields or metadata structured as JSON not currently supported.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
We are keen to improve this feature, so please [contact us](https://forms.gle/1sYWCTPvD72T1dPH9) if there is something that would help you find the signal in the noise.
{{< /admonition >}}
